IMPORTANT - READ BEFORE COPYING, INSTALLING OR USING.

Do not copy, install, or use the Materials provided under this license 
agreement ("Agreement"), until you have carefully read the following terms and 
conditions.

By copying, installing, or otherwise using the Materials, you agree to be bound 
by the terms of this Agreement.  If you do not agree to the terms of this 
Agreement, do not copy, install, or use the Materials.

End User License Agreement for the ParaTools, Inc. Software Products

1.  LICENSE DEFINITIONS:

A.  "Materials" are defined as the software, documentation, license key codes 
and other materials, including any updates and upgrade thereto, for the 
applicable ParaTools, Inc. Software Product (which may be found at 
http://www.paratools.com/), that are provided to you under this Agreement.  
Materials also include the Redistributables as defined below.

B.  "Redistributables" are the files listed in the redist.txt text file that 
may be included in the Materials for the applicable ParaTools, Inc. Software 
Product.

C.  "Source Code" is defined as the Materials provided in human readable 
format, whether unmodified or modified by you.

D.  "Sample Source" is the Source Code file(s) that: (i) demonstrate certain 
limited functions; (ii) are identified as ParaTools, Inc. sample source code; 
and (iii) are obtained separately from ParaTools, Inc. after you register your 
copy of the ParaTools, Inc. Software Product.

2.  LICENSE GRANT:

A.  Subject to all of the terms and conditions of this Agreement, 
ParaTools, Inc. ("ParaTools") grants to you a non-exclusive, non-assignable, 
copyright license to use the Materials.

B.  Subject to all of the terms and conditions of this Agreement, ParaTools 
grants to you a non-exclusive, non-assignable copyright license to modify the 
Materials, or any portions thereof, that are (i) provided in Source Code form 
or, (ii) are defined as Redistributables and are provided in text form.

C.  Subject to all of the terms and conditions of this Agreement and any 
specific restrictions which may appear in the Redistributables text files, 
ParaTools grants to you a non-exclusive, non-assignable, fully-paid copyright 
license to distribute (except if you received the Materials under an Evaluation
License as specified below) the Redistributables, or any portions thereof, as 
part of the product or application you developed using the Materials.  If such 
application is a software development library, then attribution, as specified 
in the product release notes of the corresponding Materials, shall be displayed 
prominently in that application's product documentation and on the 
application's product web site.

3.  LICENSE RESTRICTIONS:

A.  If you receive your first copy of the Materials electronically, and a 
second copy on media, then you may use the second copy only in accordance with 
your applicable license stated in this Agreement, or for backup or archival 
purposes.  You may not provide the second copy to another user.

B.  You may NOT:  (i) use or copy the Materials except as provided in this 
Agreement; (ii) rent or lease the Materials to any third party; (iii) assign 
this Agreement or transfer the Materials without the express written consent of 
ParaTools; (iv) modify, adapt, or translate the Materials in whole or in part
except as provided in this Agreement; (v) reverse engineer, decompile, or 
disassemble the Materials; (vi) attempt to modify or tamper with the normal 
function of a license manager that regulates usage of the Materials; (vii) 
distribute, sublicense or transfer the Source Code form of any components of 
the Materials, Redistributables and Sample Source and derivatives thereof to 
any third party except as provided in this Agreement; (viii) distribute 
Redistributables except as part of a larger program that adds significant 
primary functionality different from that of the Redistributables; (xi) modify 
or distribute the Source Code of any Redistributable so that any part of it 
becomes subject to an Excluded License.  An "Excluded License" is one that 
requires, as a condition of use, modification, or distribution, that (a) the 
code be disclosed or distributed in source code form; or (b) others have the 
right to modify it; or (xi) include the Redistributables in malicious, 
deceptive, or unlawful programs.

C.  The scope and duration (time period) of your license depends on the type of 
license you obtained from ParaTools.  The variety of license types are set 
forth below, which may not be available for all "ParaTools Software Products" 
and therefore may not apply to the Materials.  For more information on the 
types of licenses, please contact ParaTools or your sales representative.

i.  EVALUATION LICENSE: If you are using the Materials under the control of an
Evaluation license, you as an individual may use the Materials only for 
internal evaluation purposes and only for the term of the evaluation time 
period, which is controlled by the license key code for the Materials.  
NOTWITHSTANDING ANYTHING TO THE CONTRARY ELSEWHERE IN THIS AGREEMENT, YOU MAY 
NOT DISTRIBUTE ANY PORTION OF THE MATERIALS, AND THE APPLICATION AND/OR PRODUCT
DEVELOPED BY YOU MAY ONLY BE USED FOR EVALUATION PURPOSES AND ONLY FOR THE TERM
OF THE EVALUATION PERIOD. You may install copies of the Materials on an 
unlimited number of computers provided that you are the only individual using 
the Materials and only one copy of the Materials is in use at any one time.  
A separate license is required for each additional use and/or individual user 
in all other cases.  ParaTools will provide you with a license code key that 
enables the Materials for an Evaluation license.  If you are an entity, 
ParaTools grants you the right to designate one individual within your 
organization to have the sole right to use the Materials in the manner provided
above.

ii. NONCOMMERCIAL-USE LICENSE:  If you are using the Materials under the 
control of a Noncommercial-Use license, you as an individual may use the 
Materials only for non-business use where you receive no fee, salary or any 
other form of compensation.  The Materials may not be used for any other 
purpose, whether "for profit" or "not for profit."  Any work performed or 
produced as a result of use of the Materials cannot be performed or produced 
for the benefit of other parties for a fee, compensation or any other 
reimbursement or remuneration.  You may install copies of the Materials on an 
unlimited number of computers provided that you are the only individual using 
the Materials and only one copy of the Materials is in use at any one time.
A separate license is required for each additional use and/or individual user 
in all other cases. ParaTools will provide you with a license code key that 
enables the Materials for a Noncommercial-Use license.  If you obtained a 
time-limited Noncommercial-Use license, the duration (time period) of your 
license and your ability to use the Materials is limited to the time period of 
the obtained license, which is controlled by the license key code for the 
Materials.  If you are an entity, ParaTools grants you the right to designate 
one  individual within your organization to have the sole right to use the 
Materials in the manner provided above.

iii.    SINGLE-USER LICENSE: If you are using the Materials under the control 
of a Single-User license, you as an individual may install and use the 
Materials on an unlimited number of computers provided that you are the only 
individual using the Materials and only one copy of the Materials is in use at 
any one time.  A separate license is required for each additional use and/or 
individual user in all other cases.  ParaTools will provide you with a license 
code key that enables the Materials for a Single-User license.  If you obtained 
a time-limited Single-User license, the duration (time period) of your license 
and your ability to use the Materials is limited to the time period of the 
obtained license, which is controlled by the license key code for the 
Materials.  If you are an entity, ParaTools grants you the right to designate 
one  individual within your organization to have the sole right to use the 
Materials in the manner provided above.

iv. NODE-LOCKED LICENSE: If you are using the Materials under the control of a 
Node-Locked license, you may use the Materials only on a single designated 
computer by no more than the authorized number of concurrent users.  A separate 
license is required for each additional concurrent user and/or computer in all 
other cases.  ParaTools will provide you with a license code key that enables 
the Materials for a Node-Locked license up to the authorized number of 
concurrent users.  If you obtained a time-limited Node-Locked license, the 
duration (time period) of your license and your ability to use the Materials is
limited to the time period of the obtained license, which is controlled by the 
license key code for the Materials.

v.  FLOATING LICENSE: If you are using the Materials under the control of a 
Floating license, you may (a) install the Materials on an unlimited number of 
computers that are connected to the designated network and (b) use the Material
by no more than the authorized number of concurrent users.  A separate license
is required for each additional concurrent user and/or network on which the 
Materials are used.  ParaTools will provide you with a license code key that 
enables the Materials for a Floating license up to the authorized number of 
concurrent users.  If you obtained a time-limited Floating license, the 
duration (time period) of your license and your ability to use the Materials is
limited to the time period of the obtained license, which is controlled by the 
license key code for the Materials.

D.  DISTRIBUTION:  Distribution of the Redistributables is also subject to the 
following limitations:  You (i) shall be solely responsible to your customers 
for any update or support obligation or other liability which may arise from 
the distribution, (ii) shall not make any statement that your product is 
"certified", or that its performance is guaranteed, by ParaTools, (iii) shall 
not use ParaTools' name or trademarks to market your product without written 
permission, (iv) shall use a license agreement that prohibits disassembly and 
reverse engineering of the Redistributables, (v) shall not publish reviews of 
Materials designated as beta without written permission by ParaTools, and (vi) 
shall indemnify, hold harmless, and defend ParaTools and its suppliers from and 
against any claims or lawsuits, including attorney's fees, that arise or result 
from your distribution of any product.

E.  SOFTWARE TRANSFER:  You may permanently transfer the Materials and all of 
your rights under this Agreement to another party ("Recipient") only if you 
notify ParaTools of the transfer by sending a letter to ParaTools certifying 
that you retain no copies of the Materials and that the Recipient has agreed in
writing to be bound by all of the terms and conditions of this Agreement.  
Please send such letter to:

ParaTools, Inc.
2836 Kincaid St. 
Eugene, OR 97405, USA 

4.  COPYRIGHT: Title to the Materials and all copies thereof remain with 
ParaTools or its suppliers.  The Materials are copyrighted and are protected by 
United States copyright laws and international treaty provisions.  You will not 
remove any copyright notice from the Materials.  You agree to prevent any 
unauthorized copying of the Materials.  Except as expressly provided herein, no 
license or right is granted to you directly or by implication, inducement, 
estoppel or otherwise, specifically ParaTools does not grant any express or 
implied right to you under ParaTools patents, copyrights, trademarks, or trade 
secret information.

5.  NO WARRANTY AND LIMITED REPLACEMENT:  THE MATERIALS AND INFORMATION ARE 
PROVIDED "AS IS" WITH NO WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO ANY IMPLIED WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT OF ParaToolsLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS, OR ANY WARRANTY
OTHERWISE ARISING OUT OF ANY PROPOSAL, SPECIFICATION, OR SAMPLE.  If the media 
on which the Materials are furnished are found to be defective in material or 
workmanship under normal use for a period of ninety (90) days from the date of 
receipt, ParaTools' entire liability and your exclusive remedy shall be the 
replacement of the media.  This offer is void if the media defect results from
accident, abuse, or misapplication.

6.  LIMITATION OF LIABILITY: THE ABOVE REPLACEMENT PROVISION IS THE ONLY 
WARRANTY OF ANY KIND.  PARATOOLS OFFERS NO OTHER WARRANTY EITHER EXPRESS OR 
IMPLIED INCLUDING THOSE OF MERCHANTABILITY, NONINFRINGEMENT OF THIRD- PARTY
ParaToolsLECTUAL PROPERTY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. NEITHER 
PARATOOLS NOR ITS SUPPLIERS SHALL BE LIABLE FOR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER 
(INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, DAMAGES FOR LOSS OF BUSINESS PROFITS, BUSINESS 
INTERRUPTION, LOSS OF BUSINESS INFORMATION, OR OTHER LOSS) ARISING OUT OF THE 
USE OF OR INABILITY TO USE THE SOFTWARE, EVEN IF PARATOOLS HAS BEEN ADVISED OF 
THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.  BECAUSE SOME JURISDICTIONS PROHIBIT THE 
EXCLUSION OR LIMITATION OF LIABILITY FOR CONSEQUENTIAL OR INCIDENTAL DAMAGES, 
THE ABOVE LIMITATION MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU.

7.  UNAUTHORIZED USE:  THE MATERIALS ARE NOT DESIGNED, INTENDED, OR AUTHORIZED
FOR USE IN ANY TYPE OF SYSTEM OR APPLICATION IN WHICH THE FAILURE OF THE
MATERIALS COULD CREATE A SITUATION WHERE PERSONAL INJURY OR DEATH MAY OCCUR
(E.G MEDICAL SYSTEMS, LIFE SUSTAINING OR LIFE SAVING SYSTEMS).  Should the 
buyer purchase or use the Materials for any such unintended or unauthorized 
use, the buyer shall indemnify and hold ParaTools and its officers, 
subsidiaries and affiliates harmless against all claims, costs, damages, and 
expenses, and reasonable attorney fees arising out of, directly or indirectly, 
any claim of product liability, personal injury or death associated with such 
unintended or unauthorized use, even if such claim alleges that ParaTools was 
negligent regarding the design or manufacture of the part.

8.  USER SUBMISSIONS:  You agree that any material, information or other 
communication you transmit or post to a ParaTools website or provide to 
ParaTools under this Agreement related to the features, functions, performance 
or use of the Materials will be considered non-confidential and non-proprietary
("Communications").  ParaTools will have no obligations with respect to the 
Communications.  You agree that ParaTools and its designees will be free to 
copy, modify, create derivative works, publicly display, disclose, distribute, 
license and sublicense through multiple tiers of distribution and licensees, 
incorporate and otherwise use the Communications and all data, images, sounds, 
text, and other things embodied therein, including derivative works thereto, 
for any and all commercial or non-commercial purposes. You are prohibited from 
posting or transmitting to or from a ParaTools website or provide to ParaTools 
any unlawful, threatening, libelous, defamatory, obscene, pornographic, or 
other material that would violate any law.  If you wish to provide ParaTools 
with your confidential information, ParaTools requires a non-disclosure 
agreement ("NDA") to receive such confidential information, so please contact 
your ParaTools representative to ensure the proper NDA is in place.

9.  CONSENT.  You agree that ParaTools, its subsidiaries or suppliers may 
collect and use technical and related information, including but not limited to
technical information about your computer, system and application software, and
peripherals, that is gathered periodically to facilitate the provision of 
software updates, product support and other services to you (if any) related to
the Materials, and to verify compliance with the terms of this Agreement.  
ParaTools may use this information, as long as it is in a form that does not 
personally identify you, to improve our products or to provide services or 
technologies to you.

10. TERMINATION OF THIS LICENSE: This Agreement becomes effective on the date 
you accept this Agreement and will continue until terminated as provided for in
this Agreement.  If you are using the Materials under the control of a 
time-limited license, for example an Evaluation License, this Agreement 
terminates without notice on the last day of the time period, which is 
controlled by the license key code for the Materials.  ParaTools may terminate 
this license immediately if you are in breach of any of its terms and 
conditions and such breach is not cured within thirty (30) days of written 
notice from ParaTools.  Upon termination, you will immediately return to 
ParaTools or destroy the Materials and all copies thereof.  Any distribution of 
the Redistributables conducted in accordance with the terms and conditions of 
this Agreement shall survive termination of this Agreement.

11. APPLICABLE LAWS: Any claim arising under or relating to this Agreement 
shall be governed by the internal substantive laws of the State of Oregon, 
without regard to principles of conflict of laws.  You agree that the terms of 
the United Nations Convention on Contracts for the Sale of Goods do not apply 
to this Agreement. You agree that your distribution and export/re-export of the 
Software and permitted modifications shall be in compliance with the laws, 
regulations, orders or other restrictions of applicable export laws.

12. THIRD PARTY PROGRAMS.  The Materials may include third party programs or 
materials.  The license terms with those programs or materials apply to your 
use of them, and ParaTools is not liable for them.

* Other names and brands may be claimed as the property of others
